Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome now to the stage,
Eric Zelenkka.
Good afternoon.
Thank you for coming to
our presentation today.
We're going to be talking a
little bit about Mac OS X Server,
specifically the Tiger Server release,
and some of the new great features
and capabilities that we are
introducing in this version.
You've heard some of the
capabilities talked about in some
of the earlier presentations,
but there's plenty of other wonderful,
great features that we're
going to go into today.
So, as you know, with Mac OS X Server,
we've been rapidly innovating upon
this operating system for some time.
Several years ago, back in 2001,
was the first new release
of Mac OS X Server.
That was the 10.0 version.
We introduced that at the
2001 Developers Conference.
Later that year,
we came out with the 10.1 version,
had a number of improvements
and upgrades there.
At the same time, we, you know,
later that year,
we came out with the XServe.
We announced the XServe,
the XServe platform.
It was a platform that a lot
of people were asking for.
They wanted a purpose server,
a purpose-driven server.
They wanted something that
they could mount in a rack,
that they could run this wonderful, new,
great server operating
system that we were building.
In 2002, we finally shipped the XServe,
and we've been innovating and
continuing to deliver upon the XServe.
Also in that same year,
we delivered Jaguar Server.
So Jaguar Server was a
wonderful release for us.
We introduced a number
of new capabilities,
not only with Open Directory and
Netboot and Network Install,
but a number of great features
for education markets and
also higher education,
which was at that time kind of a
new area for Apple that was going
into the enterprise more and more.
Then just in 2003,
we had some upgrades to the XServe.
We introduced the XServe Cluster Node,
which again was a purpose-built
machine just for high-performance
computing applications.
We also introduced the XServe RAID,
massive amounts of storage.
Panther Server was,
if you were here last year,
we were talking about
Panther Server at that time.
This year we're talking
about Tiger Server,
but Panther Server continues to
be the server operating system
that we're shipping today.
In this presentation today,
we'll be talking about a lot of the
capabilities that are in Panther Server,
and then the new improvements that
we continue to make on top of that.
Other innovation that we've
done earlier in this year,
we shipped the XServe
G5 back at Macworld,
and then also introduced the new XServe
RAID with 3.5 terabytes of storage.
Two new wonderful products
that we're also introducing
is Apple Remote Desktop 2.
Everyone here should have a
copy of Apple Remote Desktop.
I encourage you to take apart your kits
when you get back to your hotels tonight,
install it on your systems,
and play with it.
This is a full release of
Apple Remote Desktop 2.
It's a wonderful new upgrade,
and in the sessions later this week,
you'll hear a lot more about it.
Also, XAN,
which is our storage area network file
system for Mac OS X and Mac OS X Server.
Again, there'll be a number of sessions
about it later in this week.
and now Tiger Server.
So let's get into Tiger Server and
talk more about what we're
doing with the operating system.
But first,
how are people using this operating
system that we've been building?
Well, let's look at some of the customer
adoptions that are out there.
Initially,
we had a lot of deployments in education.
This picture here is of
a high school district,
K-12 high school district.
They are doing a lot of servers.
I think in this specific situation,
it's a lot of network home directories.
This is a screenshot or a
picture of University of Tokyo.
This, although there's no
servers in that picture,
there are 1,600 systems here, all iMacs,
and they're net booted, disklessly,
off of our servers.
1,600 systems,
disklessly net booted off of
X Servers or any Mac OS X Server.
Here's another deployment
in the United Arab Emirates.
Again, I think this is a video one.
Virginia Tech using a lot of the desktop
management tools and utilities that
we've introduced in the operating system.
Core feature animation.
This is a Shake render farm.
They're doing videos, animations,
all again using Shake with
Mac OS X Server.
is a laboratory in Singapore,
high-performance computing,
computational clustering deployment.
Another one in Princeton.
This is an interesting one.
This is a space observatory in Germany.
Again, taking a lot of data coming
in off of satellites,
taking in data from their
telescope systems that they have,
analyzing that data using the
computational power that we have with
the X Serves and the easy-to-use,
easy-to-manage operating system that
we've delivered with Mac OS X Server.
Even in Apple's data center,
we're using this server operating system.
If you've ever connected to .Mac
and using some of the applications
and services that are up there,
whether it's your iDisk
or those types of things,
you are connecting to our servers,
our server operating system.
It's kind of that drink your
own champagne type of thinking.
And we've even got customers
who are doing really crazy
things with these servers.
I'm not sure what these guys are doing,
but they are having fun,
so that's the good news.
So we see our servers
deployed in lots of areas,
and we're trying to deliver a server
operating system that's flexible,
that can be used for lots of
different types of deployments.
As we go into enterprise spaces,
there are specific types of
applications for specific purposes,
and you'll hear a lot
about those as we go on.
You've probably seen this
slide a number of times.
This really is our strategy.
We're building upon standards,
open source,
and we're innovating upon that.
But if you look at our goals,
what are we really trying
to do with this product?
Well, we're trying to make
our servers easy to use.
We want to make them very
easy to set up and deploy,
especially if you've got a couple of them
or hundreds or thousands of X Servers.
We want to provide a really good server
for Macintosh and Windows environments.
There's a lot of departments,
a lot of workgroups out there that
can benefit from the services that
we provide in this operating system.
We want to make it easy for our systems
to integrate with existing networks,
and we want to take some of this
open source movement that's going on,
innovate upon it, integrate it, test it,
and make open source very easy to use.
And so, again,
you'll see that throughout the product
and as we talk about some of the new
features that we're introducing today.
So let's take a look at Tiger Server,
what we're delivering in Tiger Server.
First of all, before we go into the new
services within Tiger Server,
let's talk about the fundamentals
of the operating system.
When we look at the
server operating system,
there's really two sections.
There's the core operating system,
the Core OS.
That's mostly the Darwin or the BSD,
the low-level components.
And then on top of that,
there are a number of services
that we have built and we
are designing and delivering.
So I'm going to talk a little bit
about the core server operating system.
There are six major areas of
the server operating system.
We have the kernel and
the networking components,
our directory services and
network authentication layer,
which we've taken normally
as a standalone service,
and we've dropped that down into
the core of the operating system.
The libraries, the utilities,
security infrastructures,
which normally would be like just
a service that's a standalone
service right on the OS,
we build down deep into
the core of the OS,
and even high availability services.
So if you look at the kernel,
we continue to innovate on
top of the kernel and the
Darwin architecture that we have.
It's combinations of
various versions of BSD.
One of the new features that
we're talking about here a lot is
support for 64-bit applications.
So within Tiger Server,
we now have the capability of
running 64-bit applications.
And this is especially useful for
our server customers who are doing
lots and lots of number crunching.
They've got some very large
numerics that they're dealing with.
They need to hold lots of
data in memory at one time.
So now we can actually allocate
up to 64 bits of memory,
and your application can take
advantage of all of that.
On the networking side
of the operating system,
we've got, as Bertrand mentioned in his
presentation earlier today,
this is a BSD-based
networking architecture.
For server use, we have capabilities
like IP multi-homing,
so you can have multiple interfaces,
assign IP addresses to each
of those various interfaces.
Jumbo frame supports
for dealing with very,
very large packets.
Innovative things like IP over FireWire,
so we can have high bandwidth,
low latency interconnects.
One of the new features we're introducing
for the networking... Thank you.
in Tiger Server is support
for Ethernet link aggregation.
This is compliant with
the 802.3ad standard.
What this allows you to do is take
multiple Ethernet links and aggregate
them together so you have increased
overall throughput to the server.
It also gives us network
interface failover.
So if one of those connections,
those physical connections were
to get disconnected or break
or something happened to it,
the link can automatically failover to
another cable or another link aggregate.
So this can be used with
one Ethernet switch.
It could be used with
two Ethernet switches.
This is an excellent
feature for X Server G5.
If you look in an X Server G5,
we have two onboard
gigabit Ethernet ports.
Now, with the right type of switch,
you'll be able to aggregate those
ports together and get better
overall throughput to your server.
I mentioned this directory
services architecture that we
call Open Directory that we've
taken and integrated in to the
core of the operating system.
This is a way of basically
bottlenecking all user account and
authentication lookup requests,
bottlenecking them down deep into the OS,
so that if you're using one of the
applications that Apple delivered
or a service that we delivered,
or you're building an application or
you're hosting your own application,
you can be using the same
sets of user account names,
the same sets of passwords that the
rest of the operating system is using.
So we build this down
deep into Tiger Server.
Also, the other layer we look at is
the Unix commands and libraries.
There's lots of updates to these.
We continue to try and keep the
server operating system up to date
as much as possible with the rest
of the goings-on in the BSD world,
make sure that we have the latest
open source components here.
Bud Tribble mentioned earlier our focus
on security and making sure that the core
of the operating system is very secure.
And again, there's a number of different
features and capabilities
that we have for security,
and some of them are listed up here.
What's kind of different in the server
operating system is some of the high
availability components that we build in.
If you have a server,
you want your server to be reliable.
You want it to be up and
running seven days a week,
24 hours a day.
You don't want it to have any problems.
And if there are problems,
you want your server to do whatever it
can to try and fix those problems and
not have those problems to begin with.
So there's some features that we
deliver within the product for this.
As you know,
on the server operating system,
we introduced file system
journaling a long time ago.
We have support for
software RAID capabilities.
Tiger Server, we now have even RAID 10.
We have auto-restart capabilities.
So your service, if your service dies,
we can restart your service.
If there's a problem with the
entire server operating system,
the hardware can actually
automatically restart.
One of the features we delivered
a while ago was IP failover.
And we're introducing a kind of a
next generation of IP failover today,
and we call it high
availability clustering.
What this allows you to do is take
two X Servers that are connected
to the same shared storage and
have an active/passive failover.
You can create what we
call a cluster pair.
And you can create these pairs
and have them do the same thing.
What we're automating in Tiger Server is
support for network file services.
So your AFP, your SIFs,
your NFS file services,
we're going to automate the
creation of these clustered pairs.
So you can have two servers.
If one of those servers were
to fail or was to go down,
the other server will automatically take
over the responsibilities for that server
in handling its network file services.
So this is a great solution.
As you'll hear in a
presentation tomorrow morning,
there's a really flexible
network file system.
There's a really flexible
architecture here.
And you can build your own custom
solutions using this high availability
clustering architecture that we've built.
So those are the six main
components that make up the core
of the server operating system.
And now I'm going to
invite up Greg Burns,
who's the senior director of the
server and storage engineering team.
And Greg's going to take you through a
walkthrough of all the different services
that we're introducing in Tiger Server.
Greg?
Thanks, Eric.
So layered on top of the Core OS in
Mac OS X Server is a services layer,
and that implements the services
and the management that provides
the server features of the product.
The services layer includes server
administration to make management of all
the services in Mac OS X Server easy.
We have directory services to provide
naming and authentication to all the
servers and clients on the network.
Cross-platform workgroup
and collaboration services.
Client management to make management
and deployment of Macintosh
clients on the network very simple.
Internet networking services.
And new Integra server,
we have high-performance
computing clustering services.
So first let's talk about
server administration.
The server administration facilities in
Mac OS X Server integrate all of the many
open source products that we put into
the server and make it easy to manage.
We have two main server management
applications in Mac OS X Server.
Server Admin, which lets you configure,
set up, configure, and monitor all of the
services in Mac OS X Server.
It also lets you manage multiple
servers from the same console.
Workgroup Manager is our
directory management application.
It lets you manage all of the user
and group accounts in the directory.
It's designed to work
with Open Directory,
but it does work with any LDAP directory.
It also lets you manage all
of the services that are
configured out of the directory,
such as preference management
for client management.
We're introducing a couple new
management features in Tiger Server,
the first of which is
access control lists.
We have several types of
access control lists in
Tiger Server for the file system,
for services, and for the directory.
Now, those of you that are familiar
with Panther Server know that
it uses Unix permissions,
and Unix permissions,
while they work well in simple cases,
have problems being mapped
to real-world workflow.
If you have shared files on the
network and you need to be able to
set up groups of users who can write
to those files and other groups
of users who can only read them,
it's not really possible to
specify that with Unix permissions.
So we have full support for
access control lists in the file
system to provide fine-grained
control over those objects.
We also support other common
features that you would expect
from access control lists,
like groups within groups and full
lists of users and groups that can be
assigned to the file system objects.
You can specify inheritance for the ACLs.
And you can specify the access control
list for the file system objects.
You can also have control over the
default permissions of objects that
are created in the file system.
Now another area that can be difficult
in working with file systems and
different permissions models is being
able to work compatibly across multiple
different types of file systems.
But because we support all of
the features such as inheritance,
default permissions,
fine-grain permission settings,
and allow and deny rules,
Mac OS X Server and Mac OS X can be
made to work in a compatible manner
with Windows Server and with Windows XP.
So it simplifies working in
a cross-platform environment.
We have other access
control in Mac OS X server,
another area of service.
In Mac OS X server today,
if you have a server bound to a
directory that has thousands or
even tens of thousands of users
and you set up a file server,
for instance, every user account in that
directory can log onto the server.
Now, you can control permissions,
file system's permissions to
ensure that only the correct
users get access to your data,
but in many cases you want to restrict
that only to a core set of users.
And with Tiger Server,
we're introducing service ACLs so
that every user-based service in the
server can control the set of users
and groups that can access the server.
You can have the same list for
all services on your server or
energy server independently.
So that's service ACLs.
And finally,
we have directory ACLs which are
global ACLs that allow you to
control who can access and update
the contents of open directory.
And something that open directory
does different from other LDAP servers
is it stores these directory
ACLs in the directory itself
to allow them to be propagated
to the replicas by taking advantage
of open directory's replication.
So that's access control
lists in Tiger Server.
Another new feature we have for
management in Tiger Server is
certificate management.
Now certificate management in X3
involved going into the command
line and it was different for each
service and although it could be done,
it was sometimes somewhat cumbersome.
So we've simplified this
greatly in Tiger Server.
We've added certificate management in
the administration tools and you can
use this with certificates that are
signed by certificate authorities.
And you can also use Tiger's
new certificate assistant
for self-signing your own
certificates in your organization.
You can display all the certificates
you have available and assign them
to services or websites as necessary.
So that's certificate
management in Tiger Server.
Next up, we'll talk about Open Directory.
Open Directory is Apple's
directory and naming service.
It's standards-based,
and it implements LDAP naming services,
and it implements Kerberos
for authentication.
We use OpenLDAP and MIT Kerberos.
Kerberos is used to
implement single sign-on,
which lets you log in
once with one password.
It's never sent over the network.
And you get an authentication ticket,
which is good for all
services in Mac OS X.
We also have a support for what
we call the password server,
which supports password
replication to all of the open
directory replicas on the network.
And this includes replicating all
of the Kerberos support as well,
so that you can have replicated
Kerberos authentication
across your entire network.
We integrate Samba.
With Open Directory as well to
provide MT domain services for
your Windows clients to allow
them to authenticate as well with
the same account information.
And of course,
we mentioned all the replication
that's built into Open Directory.
We have a couple enhancements
that we're putting into
Open Directory in Tiger Server.
The first is managed network browsing.
Now, what is this?
In 10.3 today,
if you have a large organization
and you go to network,
it can get somewhat confusing and
unwieldy and difficult to navigate,
and we fixed that in Tiger and
Tiger Server by allowing you to control
the contents of the network directory,
and you can see you can greatly simplify
it and make it easy to navigate.
We provide virtual network views,
which can be controlled by
the network administrator.
The view is defined in
the Mac OS X Server,
and it's stored in the directory,
so any client that binds to
Open Directory will see the view.
You can combine both dynamic service
discovery protocols for Mac and Windows,
as well as static entries that
are stored in the directory,
and you can even have pointers
to other entries that are outside
of your local network that
show up in the network folder.
And we make it easy to manage.
It's managed through WorkRoot Manager.
Our directory management tool,
where you can create these
views and preview them.
So this greatly simplifies and
makes it easier to set up the
network folder in your clients
in Mac OS X Server and in Tiger.
We've also made some
enhancements to Open Directory.
Some of which include, as we mentioned,
storage of the access
controls in the directory.
Another thing that we're storing in the
directory itself is the LDAP schema.
So the schema will now be
propagated to replicas as well as
the access control information.
So again,
this greatly simplifies managing
multiple open directory servers and
simplifies the replication process.
We're adding organizational unit
support so you can have multiple
independent LDAP data sets hosted
out of your open directory server.
We're improving the scalability.
We've tested up to 200,000 servers,
200,000 records per server.
And we've added some tools that
really help simplify the process of
managing large open directory services.
We've improved search and apply so
you can do batch editing of large
number of records in the server as
well as improving the import tools.
And additionally,
since you need to back up all this data,
we've built in hot backup command
line utilities that allow you
to back up your naming and
authentication database on the fly.
And we've made some
enhancements to security.
We have authenticated directory
binding in the server and the
client so that administrators can
control who accesses the directory
and you have mutual authentication
between the client and server.
And we have the NTLMv2 authentication for
Windows clients to provide more security
for Windows client authentication.
Another area of services
in Mac OS X Server is
workgroup and collaboration.
Workgroup and collaboration services
provide for sharing in workgroups,
and the most common of these, obviously,
are file and print.
And like we do today, we support file and
print sharing for Mac,
Windows, and Linux clients.
This works for folders on the
file server as well as home
directories between Mac and Windows,
and sharing your network
printers as well,
so all of your local workgroup resources.
These are fully integrated
in Mac OS X Server.
All of the protocols can
share the same SharePoint,
the same shared folders.
They use the same access privileges,
the same account information,
so you set it up once and the files
are accessible from all clients.
The Windows domain services
are integrated as well,
so the Windows clients have full access
to all of the resources on the server.
We support Windows roaming
profile for home directory logins,
and we have native print services
for both Mac and Windows clients.
We made some enhancements
to work of services as well.
Couple of these are unified file locks.
Now we have file locking
today in Mac OS X Server,
but we've enhanced this to make sure that
the file locking is consistent between
all the protocols so that no matter
what client you're logging in from,
no matter what platform,
if you're accessing the same
data you get consistent locking.
We've added --
We've added backup domain
controller support,
which exists today in Samba,
but we've added configuration for this
and then management tools to make it
easy to set up to provide read-only
failover for the Windows domain
services for greater reliability.
And we've integrated the print
services more directly with
CUPS so that when you manage print
services in Server Admin now,
you are managing the CUPS queues,
you're managing the CUPS printing.
We've eliminated some of the middle
layers there and really had tighter
integration in print services with CUPS.
And we've also added print
authentication so you can
control access to print queues.
We've added a few new services for
work group and collaboration as well.
The first is the iChat server.
The Tiger iChat server provides
encrypted messaging for your
intranet and a secure namespace.
It's based on Jabber
using the XMPP protocol.
And it provides cross-platform support,
obviously with Jabber clients
as well as Tiger's iChat client.
And because it's integrated
with Open Directory,
it provides a secure namespace for
chat within your local intranet.
We also have a weblog server that we're
introducing in TigerServer as well.
A weblog is a way of easily
publishing and syndicating
information on the internet.
And what the weblog server does is
allow you to publish information
and syndicate it using standard
protocols like RSS or Atom.
This morning you heard about Safari SSS.
Our weblog server is completely
compatible with Safari SSS as well
as any other popular RSS reader.
We have a number of features that
we support around style sheets
and calendar-based navigation
that people who manage weblogs can
control for their individual log.
The logs themselves are automatically
created as needed for user
accounts in Open Directory.
And you can post to them directly from
the web or from clients that support
standard protocols like XMLRPC or Atom.
And another feature we have in
Mac OS X Server and TigerServer is
the ability to have group weblogs.
Eric Zelenk,
Greg Burns We have a number of
features that we support around style
sheets and calendar-based navigation
that people who manage weblogs
can control for their individual log.
The logs themselves are automatically
created as needed for user
accounts in Open Directory.
as well so that people that are
doing shared project weblogs
can use a group account in
Open Directory to have multiple
folks have right access to a weblog.
So now I'd like to have Eric come
up again and do a quick demo of
Weblog Services and Tiger Server.
Thank you, Greg.
So the Weblog server that we've
built into Tiger Server is
going to be a wonderful tool.
It's going to allow people to
better syndicate or publish
their content out to others,
but also allow a new way for
groups to communicate information.
I think one of the benefits of
RSS and syndication of information
is it makes it really easy to
communicate with the rest of the world.
Part of the problem with it is
how do I get that information
out to the rest of the world?
How can I publish this information?
I'm not an XML expert,
so how can I create this data and
push it out to the rest of the world?
So let me show you how easy that
is going to be in Tiger Server.
First of all, I'm going to launch the
server admin application.
Server admin application here.
I'm going to go to Tiger Server.
I'm going to go in and
enter for the web server.
It's very, very simple.
I can go to the site that I'm hosting,
and with a simple checkbox,
I can enable the Weblog server.
Next, let's go down to Safari.
And I'll open up Safari here.
Okay, let me log back in.
So I've connected off to the
weblog server which is running
on this Tiger server box here.
You'll notice a couple things.
First of all,
I have calendar-based views.
So with most blogs,
you need to be able to go back.
It's time-based information.
I can go to any date here on the
calendar and it will show me the
entries that were created for that day.
I have the ability to search
within the various blogs,
search and return that content to me.
You'll also know categories
that are available down here.
So as I click different products,
I can get the information that
was posted into that category.
So first thing I'm going to do is
in this view right here would just
be like the basic end user view.
They're just going up there.
They're just looking at the
data within the browser.
Notice that Safari up
here displays the RSS.
So this is actually an RSS feed.
It notices that there's
RSS information that's available here.
The links that are
available at the bottom,
by clicking one of those,
I will actually see the
RSS information that is there.
And by clicking this in Safari RSS,
it actually gets displayed.
I can also take this information
and download it to the desktop
or copy that RSS URL information
or XML information and put it
into some other type of client.
So first thing I'm going to do
here is I'm going to log in.
Now, the log in information here,
this is actually bound to a directory.
So I could be bound to,
if the server's just running locally,
I could just use the accounts
that are on that local machine.
As Greg mentioned,
the server's typically going
to be... integrated with an
existing directory system.
So we can take advantage of the user
accounts and namespace that's already
created for you within the network.
So I'm going to log in here.
Hopefully I remember the
right name and password.
I did.
I have the ability now,
as the owner of this
area of this web blog,
of creating a new category.
So here's a new category here.
So I'm going to create a new category.
And I'm going to name this after iChat.
Because I'm going to go and I'm
going to create an iChat entry.
The next thing I'm going to
do is I'm going to go and I'm
going to make an iChat entry.
So I'm going to pick the
appropriate category here.
and I'm going to go grab some text.
So Steve made me famous this morning for
doing a video conference at 35,000 feet.
Unfortunately,
I'm not famous for my product,
but that's okay.
So I'm going to take
this information here,
you know, a little bit of text here.
Let me copy some of this.
and just paste the simple
text in and hit save.
And then automatically I get an update.
You'll notice that the weblog server
gives us feedback to the user that
says that the weblog entry was created.
As users read this,
they can post comments to each
of the individual entries.
And as an administrator,
I also have the ability to go back,
edit this information,
and delete it at any time that I see fit.
So this is the new weblog
server in Tiger Server.
Thank you, Eric.
So that's Workgroup and
Collaboration Services.
Now let's move on to Client Management.
Client Management Services in
Mac OS X Server let you
easily deploy and manage large
numbers of Macintosh computers.
We have Client Management Services that
let you control preferences
and capabilities on the client.
This is called
Directory-Based Management,
or Preference Management.
This is deployed via Open Directory,
and it's configured from the Workgroup
Manager application in Mac OS X Server.
We also have System Imaging
Services that make it easy to
set up and deploy software on
systems throughout your network.
NetBoot lets you
configure a single image or a
small group of image and boot
network systems from the server.
You can also use NetInstall to
install those same images to systems
that are on the network as well.
We've made a few improvements to
system imaging in Tiger Server,
the first of which is when
you create these images,
we now configure the open directory
configuration for your network in the
images to make it easier to deploy
the images without having to tweak
open directory settings afterwards.
We also are supporting block copy for
software installs and NetInstalls to
greatly speed the net install process.
And lastly,
we're allowing you to create bootable
DVD images from your NetInstall images.
So you can install those images
on systems that are offline,
off the network.
We have a few other services
that we're adding to client
management in Tiger Server,
the first of which is
mobile home directories.
Mobile home directories
lets you take user files,
accounts,
and other information that pertains to
your home directory and sync it between
a portable and a network home directory.
This synchronization occurs when the
portable is connected to the network.
It occurs in the background
with trickle sync.
And when your portable is offline
and these files are updated,
the files in your home directory
and your document folder,
your preferences, and they're updated,
when you connect back to the
network to the home directory,
they'll be synced back up to the server.
So this allows you to maintain consistent
information between your portable and
your network home directory server,
and it also allows you to have a backup
of the contents of the portable on the
network in case it ever becomes lost.
And because the account information
is synchronized as well between the
portable computer and the network,
the single sign-on on the network is
also brought down to the portable when
it's offline because all of the account
information and the authentication
information is synchronized as well.
So that's mobile home
directories in Tiger Server.
And Software Update Server,
we heard in the earlier session,
allows you to
Deal with an issue that we have today
where we have a lot of software updates
that make it very easy to maintain the
latest software on your Mac OS X systems.
It makes it very convenient.
But when we have a new update like
a Mac OS X 10.10.3.4 and you have
everyone in your organization downloading
that update the day it comes out,
it can create a real strain
on your network bandwidth.
So software update allows you to
use Mac OS X's software updates,
but by providing a proxy cache server for
software updates also conserves network
bandwidth and makes it easier for you to
get those updates into your organization.
It's totally transparent and automatic.
When software updates become available,
they're downloaded to the server
and made available to the clients.
But you have control as well.
Some sites like to test the
updates to make sure it works
with their internal software.
Before they're downloaded,
they're going to have to go
through a lot of testing.
How do they make them
available for deployment?
And so you can either choose to make the
software updates automatically available
to clients as soon as they're posted,
or you can make that step manual and test
the updates yourself and then release
them once you're satisfied that they
work with your internal applications.
Software update server.
Internet and networking services
in Mac OS X Server allow you
to manage your network and host
applications such as web services,
mail, and Java application services.
For networking support
in Mac OS X Server,
we support DNS for domain
address name management,
DHCP for IP address assignments,
NAT for connecting to the Internet and
for sharing IP addresses among systems.
We support firewall for securing
your connection to the Internet,
and we support VPN to
allow remote clients,
whether they be Mac or Windows,
to access the services on your network
securely from a remote location.
We've made a few enhancements to
networking services in Tiger Server.
The first is site-to-site VPN.
If you have multiple sites and
you want to have a secure LAN,
virtual LAN between them,
we now allow you to set up
site-to-site VPN between these sites.
We do this over the internet
securely with IPSec.
We've improved server management
with DHCP by allowing you to manage
systems that have multiple network
interfaces and handled address
assignment for those systems,
as well as handling static IP address
assignment in server admin as well.
And we've improved the
workflow for DNS management.
We've greatly simplified
that over the 10.3 release.
Another area of networking services
that can be somewhat difficult is
setting up internet gateway services.
This is fairly complex.
There are a number of services
that all have to be configured
consistently with each other.
And we've simplified this
in Tiger Server through the
Gateway Setup Assistant.
This sets up everything you
need for an internet gateway.
So it configures your DHCP and
your VPN address ranges,
NAT port routing, the firewall VPN.
And it does it in just
a few simple steps.
And so this is ideal for small sites,
small businesses that have a
connection to the internet,
for remote sites that share one
DSL connection to the internet.
It makes it very easy to set up
the server as an internet gateway.
So I'm going to ask Eric to
come up again and demo this
and show you how simple it is.
So one of the things that we wanted
to make easy in Tiger Server was
to make it much easier to set
up complex networking services.
A lot of people are trying to use
servers for port routing or they
want to have one port on their server
for a connection out to the WAN,
another port for a
connection onto the LAN.
But they've got all these different
services that they need to configure.
You've got your DNS, your DHCP,
you've got your firewall,
you might be running VPN,
you've got to set up port mapping, NAT.
There's a lot of different services.
So in Tiger Server,
one of the things we're making
it much easier to do is set up,
easier to set up all these
disparate different services.
So within the server admin application,
you can now select the
gateway setup tool.
What this will do is it's an assistant.
There we go.
Let me try that again.
So the Gateway Setup Assistant tool
allows you to configure your
server for use as a gateway.
It's a very simple assistant.
It kind of walks the user through
what needs to be done to the server.
So the first thing you're going to
do is select which port you're going
to use as your port for the WAN.
This might be a cable modem,
broadband connection using DSL,
or those sorts of things.
Next,
you're going to configure which LAN port.
So if you have an XServe and you have
another built-in gigabit Ethernet port,
that might be something you select here.
Obviously, I'm on a desktop system here,
so I don't have multiple
built-in Ethernet ports.
Then what the Internet Gateway Setup
Assistant is going to do is it's
going to give me a summary of the
configuration changes it's going to make.
So it tells me,
here's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to set up this port.
I'm going to turn on port mapping.
I'm going to configure your DHCP server.
I'm going to set up NAT.
I'm going to turn DNS on for caching.
And if I hit Apply here,
it's actually going to
reconfigure this machine,
so I will lose some
networking capability here.
And now it's done.
So now what I can do is I can go back
into the server admin application.
And within this application,
a number of services have
been turned on for me.
So I can go into the firewall.
I can go into its settings.
And I can see that the
firewall settings have been
automatically configured for me.
Within DNS, I can see that here.
NAT is stopped there.
Now it's running.
But what it does is it
automatically configures up
each of these services for you.
So again,
another really innovative feature
that we're delivering in Tiger Server,
make it very easy for people to use.
these complex network services.
Internet services in Mac OS X Server.
We had a broad range of
internet services in 10.3,
and of course we've
carried these forward.
Apache for web services,
the most broadly deployed
web server in the world.
We have integrated mail
services that are based on a
number of open source projects,
Postfix for mail delivery,
Cyrus for IMAP,
and Mailman for list management.
We've integrated these all together.
They're all integrated through
Open Directory for account
management and through server admin
for management and configuration.
We have QuickTime streaming
services that allow you to host
streaming media or video on demand,
as well as live media
that's streamed as well.
You can use QuickTime Broadcaster to
encode the live media and reflect it
through the QuickTime streaming server.
And we have QTSS Publisher,
which lets you manage your content
on the QuickTime streaming server.
If you're building
enterprise Java applications,
we support J2E through
JBoss and Apache Tomcat.
And if you need to host a
back-end database and link
it into your web server,
we have QTSS Publisher.
link it into your website,
so we include MySQL as well.
We've carried these services
forward and we've provided some
enhancements to Tiger Server as well.
The first is in the area of mail
services where we've integrated junk
mail filtering and virus filtering into
the mail server with Spam Assassin,
an open source project
that we've integrated.
We've integrated this in with our mail
services and we've also integrated all
of the management into server admin,
so it's very easy to
configure and set up.
We support virtual domains
now for the mail server,
where we allow you to set up
multiple virtual mail domains.
So if you have, for instance,
Company 1 and Company 2 on your server,
you can have the same mail name,
sales@company1 or sales@company2,
go to multiple independent
mailboxes on the server.
We've enhanced the
support for mail quotas,
so you can have soft quotas with
customizable messages as well as hard
quotas that will actually stop delivery
of mail to mailboxes that are full.
We've also delivered some
enhancements to QuickTime streaming.
We've enhanced the QTS publisher
for improved workflow and
added AppleScript support.
And we've enhanced the scalability
of QuickTime streaming to support bit
rates that can now deliver HD quality on
local intranets with our latest codecs.
That's internet services in Tiger Server.
And lastly,
another area that you've heard
in the previous sessions a bit
about today is high performance
computing with grid clusters.
And we have previously released
a technology preview of a
technology we call X Grid.
And we're improving that and
productizing that in Tiger Server.
X Grid will provide software that
you need to provide clustering
in Mac OS X and Mac OS X Server.
You can do that through a dedicated
set of XServe clustering nodes.
Or you can also use X Grid to harvest
spare CPU cycles from desktops that
you have in your network when they're
not being used for ad hoc clustering.
X Grid will have an SDK that allows
you to embed awareness and use of
the grid into your applications.
It also works with command line
applications so that you can distribute
command line jobs that have no inherent
awareness of the grid or the cluster.
We provide management tools that
let you set up the grid through
server admin and manage your systems.
And you can manage jobs and
job submission and node status
from any client on the network.
And like all of the other
services in Tiger Server,
it's integrated with
Open Directory for security.
So those are the services layer in
Tegra Server in Mac OS X Server.
Server administration,
directory services, workgroup,
client management, internet,
and high performance computing.
We've talked about a few
of the major features that
we're introducing here today,
64-bit applications,
access control lists,
mobile home directories.
There are a lot more.
We don't have time to
go through them all.
We've actually added about 200
new features in the server.
And in Mac OS X Server,
we have about 100 open source
solutions that we've integrated.
We've integrated all of these by
integrating them with open directories so
they share the same account information,
the same authentication information,
and we've integrated them through
server admins so they have the same
management interface and they're
easy to set up and configure.
So Tiger Server.
So next, I'd like to point you to a few
sessions related to the server.
There are actually quite a
few in the IT track this week,
so we're not going to list them all,
but here are a few that you shouldn't
miss that I'll call out and you can
check your schedules for the rest.
Tomorrow morning is
Inside Mac OS X Server.
Tomorrow afternoon,
if you want to find out
more about file settings,
you can go to the system access controls.
There's a session there.
On Wednesday, we have a session on
developing 64-bit applications.
We have sessions on desktop management
technologies and Apple Remote Desktop for
our client management as well.
We have two sessions
on Wednesday for XAN,
some sessions on directory services on
Thursday and network authentication.
For J2E and Java programming
on the server,
we have a session on JBoss on Friday.
And we have a session on
distributed computing with Xgrid,
the clustering service.
We have two sessions on
Mac OS X Server on Wednesday afternoon.
If you have feedback,
we have a feedback forum for
the server tomorrow afternoon.
And it may have been moved,
so check your calendar.
And we have an enterprise
feedback forum as well.
So if you need more information,
there is the release notes and
documentation will be posted for
Tiger Server as it becomes available
on the Apple Developer Connect site.
And you can get the
current documentation.
documentation for the server
product there as well.